Alright! Since we got some tests added
to our project, now we can set up
Continuous Integration testing so that
gives us a couple nice things that we
can do to keep an eye on our project. If
you follow my courses and my blog, you
know I am a big fan of Continuous
Integration. One project I really
like a lot is CircleCI. I got it
open up here in a tab. CircleCI is
they do have a free tier where you can
use it. I'm operating on the free tier.
I've got a bunch of stuff in it. So the
free tier does give you quite bit
capabilities and it has really really
nice integration with GitHub. What we
are gonna do is go through and set up
our project on CircleCI. But first I
wanna create an issue for that. We're
gonna set up CircleCI..setup.
So I'm gonna add in that issue and
then we will add in one more issue which
I think is nice. I'm gonna add Build
Badge and what that will do is set up a
badge on the home. So I can set up a
badge right here to show if the build is
occurring properly. So we'll do that also.
So let's come back here to our issues.
I am going to start working on Setup
CircleCI. Just add that to myself.
Setting up CircleCI is like
crazy crazy simple. I can come here and
I'm gonna go in add projects. You can
see I have a ton of stuff here and the
sfg-pet-clinic that's what we are
working with so I'm gonna set up
project and we do have a Maven project.
All I got to do is here and say Copy
To Clipboard and it's gonna copy this
file over. I'm gonna go over to
IntelliJ then we'll talk through what's
going on in here.
Now inside of IntelliJ, what I wanna do
here is create a new directory.
So we want is .circle
So CircleCI just wants a directory
called .circleci. So I'm gonna save
that and then you see here and wants the
file config.yaml or yml. So I'm
gonna come in here,
New File,
OK and I'm gonna go ahead and paste in.
I'm just cutting and pasting
literally. This is a sample file from
CircleCI. I literally clicked on Copy To
Clipboard and pasted it into this file
inside my project. So let's go over and
do a quick code review on what's going
on here. Line 5 is version 2. CircleCI
recently went from 1 to 2. There's a lot
of differences in the syntax of the file.
A lot of new capabilities. A lot of
people still using version 1 but
you can see when I'm in CircleCI
have a warning at the top I've got some
older project still using version 1. And
now, as we go down here, we have a build
job, and here on line 7, we have a job
called build and it has an attribute for
Docker. What's important here is on
line 10, our build is gonna run inside
of a Docker Container and we are going to
utilize the circlec/openjdk:8. So this
is setting up the JDK 8. I know
11 is out now but the world is still
functioning on 8 quite a bit. So that
sets up that JDK 8. This is again a
Docker Image that our build is gonna run
inside of. Line 17 sets up our
working_directory so we are gonna go to the
home folder of repo.
Then we set up some MAVEN_OPTS. The amount
of memory there that's quite a bit
generous so our Maven should not pop on
that I hope. And then our steps on line
23, we're gonna check out. And here, CircleCI has the ability to cache dependencies
and they're caching mechanism is a
little funny,
depends on what host you're running on.
They have a variety of hosts so
sometimes you'll get a cache, sometimes
you won't. It can be a little odd from
just observations. And then the mvn
dependency:go-offline. That effectively
says go and get all my dependencies
I'm gonna run in an offline mode from
there and now we can save the cache
so you can see here on line 35 that is
saving the cache and this is a CircleCI
thing. Spring projects do bring down a
ton of stuff so your dependencies list gets
quite big in a relative sort of way. And
then finally on line 41 at the bottom
there, we are gonna run integration tests.
So this will run all your tests. So it'll
pick up unit tests and integration tests.
This is a Maven command and you can
customize this quite a bit. So this is
actual Maven run command but for our
purposes right now we are not doing any
type of Docker build or deploy or
anything unusual code coverage, so the
default is gonna work just fine for
us. So I'm gonna go ahead and commit this.
I'm gonna say adding
and note I'm not doing to close this, on the
issue because I'm not done yet but I do
need to commit this file up to GitHub. So
I'm gonna go and commit and push because
I need to get that up to GitHub for
CircleCI to actually see it .So we can
see that it's now pushed up there. Let's
come back over here to CircleCI. And now
I can say Start building and this is
gonna watch a build. You can see now
that it's going to go through and do the
build on it. Click on that. We can see
that it's starting to run. This is gonna
take a couple of minutes to run. I'm
gonna pause the video while it's running
and then it'll come back to this. I'm gonna
hit pause right now. I'll be right back
after this builds. Now resume the video
and our build failed. So let's go and
take a look and see what happened.
And we got a bunch of chatter here.
The output can be quite verbose. I'm
still scrolling down to the bottom. I'm
gonna grab the slider over here
and I don't see why it
failed.
So the build file could be too big so I downloaded it.
Could not find...
Okay so what's happening here is it
cannot find that. So the problem is
the Maven command that I'm using. Because
it's a multi module project, it's not
finding that. So I'm just running it
integration test and let's change our
build. I believe this will solve it.
Rather than integration test, let's do
install. So what install does is it tells
Maven to install to the local directory
into the local M2. So I'm gonna go
ahead and Git and push that.
So go ahead and push that up. I'll
explain that a little bit more. So now
I'm committing this. We can see that
as going up to GitHub in the background.
You can see in the lower right there, I
pushed successful so now then it's gonna
kick off a build on CircleCI. While that
is cooking, I'm gonna explain what
happened there. So we can see this cache
here and we have a couple of options here.
We have the mvn dependency:go-offline
and we are saving the cache and you can
see here this .m2.
So the container that we're running in
will have a Maven directory a local
cache and what we are doing is mvn
install. We are telling it to install it
so our build happened properly but we
were only running integration tests so
that artifact was not installed into the
local Maven directory. So this install
step will actually tell it to go ahead
and install it. So let's go ahead and
toggle back over to CircleCI and take a
look at our jobs and we should have one
running and this failed again.
Let's see if we have the same error
or not.
Anyway the same thing. So the install did
not work. I'm gonna pause this and
figure out the exact. I think it's
because we went offline.
So hold on one second. I'm gonna pause
this and come up with a solution. Okay, did
a little research. I think I got it
here. I'm going to go ahead and
revert this back to integration-test and
what I wanna do here is before I go
offline and w offline does
is kind of named funny. It forces Maven
to download everything. So I'm going to
do this and what this does is it tells
Maven to install and then I'm passing
it. I can remember that the syntax for
the skip test but it's -DskipTests
that's why it does toggle over one
make sure I had that right. So I'm gonna
do run. I'm gonna add in a run step
here so you can see that the build has
multiple steps. So now it's gonna say
checkout,  restore the cache from the checksum on the pom and then we are also
going to run the run install which will
install the modules into the local maven
cache but it's going to skip the test.
And then down here on line 43 we'll
actually run the test. So the problem is
that we have one module depending on
the other. But Maven by default it
doesn't look at your source code or what
it's compiled source code, It's gonna look at jars in the maven .m2
cache. So if you're looking at your
directory under m2, you'll find a
repository and inside that repository
you'll find all those jars being used. So
I'm gonna go ahead and commit this.
Fixing build again and we'll go ahead
and commit and push that. Let's
toggle over to CircleCI. Make sure
that pushing is successful, which it does. And
now let's come back over here to Jobs
and you see that this is already running.
You can see that it does download a
ton of stuff and this is all the stuff
from Spring and all the dependency so
it's bringing down all the jars and
checksums and yada yada. So you can see a
ton of stuff. So when you do a build like
that with Spring build, you do get a ton of
stuff that comes down.
So we are to the Saving Cache step.
And now it looks like we are
looking pretty good I think. I think we
got further than we did in the past so
we are now seeing the plugin. So it's
actually building the artifact and we
are in the green. You can see here
yeah my tests pass all the way at the
top there. So that is from a allowing
alerts inside of Google Chrome. So our
test is now green. If they look at the
jobs. We can see that that did fix it so
a pretty common. It's not uncommon
when you're setting up a CI build to have
a couple fail right out of the gate
until you get a couple things tweaked
depending on your build environment. So
having two failures is not the end of
the world but we did get the third one
to pass. But what's important now is as I
make changes what's gonna happen in
the background, CircleCI is going to
check out the code and run these tests
every time. And if I inadvertently break
something as we are progressing with the
development of this application, I will
get an email saying, "Hey dummy, you broke
the build." Well it doesn't actually
say hey dummy but I will get an alert
that I broke something in my Continuous Integration test. So again, big fan of
CircleCI. Big fan of doing Continuous
Integration testing. Definitely best
practice to be using in your own
software development. So the last thing I
need to do is because I had multiple
commits here, I did not change any issues
but I do wanna go ahead and close this
because I wanna say that I finished that
and in hindsight what I should have done
is I should have tagged this issue
number so I would have seen that commits
on it. So that was my mistake.
Technically I should go back and amend
those commit messages but I'm gonna
call this good for right now.
I'm gonna go ahead
and close and comment. And again if I come
over here to the commits in hindsight I
should have done a pound 63 on that and
then these commits would have been
associated with that task. So that was a
mistake that I made. But just be
cognizant of that. If you're using an
issue tracker like that, I got into a
pattern just to enclose as close as an
issue number. But if I have multiple
commits, I am doing get something like
this. I can go in and either amend this
or when I did the commits I should have
added a pound 63. So it would be
associated with that issue so if I look
up that issue I could have seen the
commits. But minor details but
just wanna make sure that you're aware
of that best practice and point out my
home personal little mistake there. Okay
I have an addition here. A number you are
having problems with CircleCI building
properly and what's happening the error
that you can see is let me jump down to
the bottom here.  You're gonna see the
Surefire the forked VM terminated and
what's happening since I produced this
Java 8 there is a release to Java 8 and
the CircleCI team updated the base
image and in that base image with the
updated Java 8 JDK, there's a problem
with Maven. It is not happy. The solution
I saw this in a different project and the
solution is to upgrade to Java 11.
I've upgraded the project to Java 11. I
detail this in section 12 of the course.
I've recorded a couple of videos detailing
this out for people proceeding through
the course. If you do encounter this,
the solution is to upgrade to a Java 11
and you can see here, I didn't make any
code changes. This build is now
functioning normally and the only
changes I had to upgrade a number of
dependencies for Java 11 to and also
bring the project and compile
everything up to Java 11. That has been
done at the project level and it is
detailed in section 12 of the course. So
I'm trying to integrate this in. This is
number change. Have breaking change that
happened inside of the the JDK and when
they updated that, that started to break it.
At the time of the recording, right
now it is November 2018, Java 8 is
going into D support at the end of the
year. So it's no longer being officially
supported by Oracle Corporation and Java
11 is out and that is the LTS release so
will be on Java 11 for the foreseeable
future. This is gonna be the first module
of course upgraded to Java 11. In Q1 of
2019, I'll be upgrading the entire course
to run and function on Java 11. But at
this point in time, if you do hit this
error and you wanna see CircleCI
executing properly upgrade to Java 11.
You can see that detailed out in section
12 of the course and I'm not gonna
update anything from there so it
happened as we're proceeding through
there. So if you need help upgrading to
Java 11, that is in section 12 of the
course and that will resolve the
CircleCI issues that you're seeing.